so you've signed up for the grammarian
role at your toastmasters club
but you're a little bit unsure if you're
totally prepared for the role or what's
going to be involved
at the meeting don't worry you've come
to the right place today i'm going to
talk
about the grammarian role and the most
important things you need to know
to crush it hey everyone my name is wade
patterson and i am passionate about
toastmasters and communication in
general and before we get started with
this grammarian video
i want you to hit that subscribe button
and like this
video and leave a comment let me know if
you've done the grammarian role
before if you're brand new to
toastmasters let me know what brought
you to this video
and even what videos you'd like to see
me cover in the future
so there are two main purposes to the
grammarian role and the first one
is picking a word of the day now it's
important to pick a word
that is going to challenge the other
club members vocabulary
but also set them up for success
so i've seen some examples of words that
are a little bit
too easy and too common used all the
time
and then i've also seen words that are
so difficult
that nobody ends up using that word
throughout the meeting
so you want to come prepared with a
great word a few of the words i like
are things like nostalgia or trepidation
or benevolent words that aren't commonly
used every single day but
most people have heard of at some point
so the preparation part
means that you need to have that word in
a visible space that you can spread
throughout the meeting so in our
particular club the grammarian always
comes with
printed off sheets of paper with the
word as well as a brief description
and also having that word used in a
sentence which is really helpful because
if another toastmaster in the club
didn't catch what you said during your
grammarian role when you go and speak to
everyone
they can still see that piece of paper
that shows the word
and shows an example of how it can be
used along with that definition
now one of the most important things and
this goes for myself because my eyesight
isn't always the greatest but make sure
that the word
is really visible print it off in huge
letters
and then the definitions can be a little
bit smaller below that's a little bit
less important but make sure that word
is visible print off a few
different pieces of paper so before the
meeting starts
you can hang those up bring a little bit
of tape tape them up in different spots
throughout the room
so that no matter where your
toastmasters members are sitting
they're able to see that that is the
word of the day
so the grammarian rule itself really is
broken down into three parts
speaking listening and then speaking
once again so early on in the meeting
and the thing to remember is that every
toastmasters club
often has a bit of a different structure
on what the actual agenda
looks like but in most clubs meetings
you will have the grammarian who comes
up toward the beginning of the meeting
to give a report and explain what the
grammarian role
is and what things you as the grammarian
will be looking for
i already mentioned that first one
you're going to introduce
a word of the day and give a couple of
examples of how toastmasters can use
that word in a sentence also perhaps
give the definition of the word
but then the second part that you're
going to explain to the club
is the other part of the grammarian role
and that is
to be listening carefully throughout the
meeting
and you're going to be listening for two
things first off
great uses of language and vocabulary
that
went beyond low-hanging fruit the second
thing you're going to be looking for
is any toastmasters members who used a
word
when really there was an opportunity to
use a better word
or a more descriptive word so for
example
let's say it's during table topics
somebody is giving an answer and they
keep using the word
good they say i had a good weekend
there's a lot of good things that happen
well no you can start to mix in
different words you can say i had an
amazing weekend
there were phenomenal things that
happened i had such an incredible time
and by giving suggestions like that it's
going to help the
other club members so that's the first
part of the grammarian role
is the speaking it's introducing the
word of the day
it's explaining what the role is and
informing everyone that you're going to
be listening
for great uses of language and
opportunities
when members could have spoken a little
bit more clearly or used better
vocabulary
the second part of the rule is the
listening
so for the rest of the media you're
going to be listening very
carefully for great examples of
vocabulary and you're going to want to
have a pen and a piece of paper so that
you can
write those things down and make notes
of which
club members used which words and just
like i said before you're
also going to be listening for examples
of when club members
could have used a better word than they
chose to use
and you're going to want to have one
column on that piece of paper for word
of the day
and track all of the club members who
were able to use
the word of the day throughout the
meeting one thing our club
loves to do when somebody uses the word
of the day is start knocking
on the table it's sort of an encouraging
thing and it draws everyone's attention
that
hey there is this word of the day that's
out there and
maybe i can use it when i stand up and
speak at my next opportunity
by the way there are so many things in
toastmasters that are relevant to real
life like maybe you're wondering
what's the point of this grammarian and
well if you ever have an opportunity to
speak in front of a crowd
you can really gain an audience trust
very quickly
by using strong vocabulary but on the
other side you can
really lose an audience quickly if you
use the wrong word to explain something
so if you use a word incorrectly that
can lose some trust with your audience
and so it's important is grammarian to
track those types of things and if you
hear somebody using something
incorrectly
let them know because for all you know
they might not even have an idea
that they're using that word wrong so
we've talked about the initial speaking
part of the grammarian rule and then the
second part which is listening
and then the third part is once again
speaking at the end you will have your
chance
to give your report which will include
several things first off
all of the uses of the word of the day
calling out the club members and how
many times they use that word
as well as the listening part where you
caught
great uses of language and that'll be
referencing your notes
and the final aspect is those
opportunities when somebody could have
used a better word than they chose to
use
now like any role in toastmasters
sometimes it's tempting to
have our notes and especially a role
like evaluation or grammarian or aw
counter it's very tempting but what i
would challenge you to do
is have your notes with you but don't
sit there and just stare at your nose
make sure you're still doing all of the
effective forms of communication
one tactic i love to use is if there's a
podium or somewhere where
toastmasters can put their notes i like
to actually turn that sideways beside me
and have my notes there and still speak
in front of the group addressing all of
the members and then quickly taking a
glance
to address where i am and then facing
the audience again
it's by this practice that it's less
distracting
like i say if you have a single piece of
paper in your hands and your head is
buried
people are just looking at your forehead
they're not seeing your eyes they're not
seeing that eye contact
so even if you have notes you want to
still make sure that you're making eye
contact as you give your grammarian
introduction as well as your grammarian
report
at the end i hope this video helps you
take on your next grammarian role with
gusto i can't wait to hear about how it
goes feel free to drop a comment
and like this video subscribe to this
channel because it's my goal to be
delivering a lot more videos
on toastmasters and how you can be a
great toastmaster
and take on every single role that's out
there